#OrionRESTHandler
This document explains how a notified NGSI event containing context data is converted into a Flume event, suitable for being consumed by any of the Cygnus sinks, thanks to OrionRESTHandler

A NGSI-like event example could be (the code below is an <i>object representation</i>, not any real data format; look for it at [Orion documentation](https://forge.fiware.org/plugins/mediawiki/wiki/fiware/index.php/Publish/Subscribe_Broker_-_Orion_Context_Broker_-_User_and_Programmers_Guide#ONCHANGE)):

    ngsi-event={
        http-headers={
            Content-Length: 492
            Host: localhost:1028
            Accept: application/json
            Content-Type: application/json
            Fiware-Service: vehicles
            Fiware-ServicePath: 4wheels
        },
        payload={
            {
                "subscriptionId" : "51c0ac9ed714fb3b37d7d5a8",
                "originator" : "localhost",
                "contextResponses" : [
                    {
                        "contextElement" : {
                        "attributes" : [
                            {
                                "name" : "speed",
                                "type" : "float",
                                "value" : "112.9",
                                "metadatas": []
                            },
                            {
                                "name" : "oil_level",
                                "type" : "float",
                                "value" : "74.6",
                                "metadatas": []
                            }
                        ],
                        "type" : "car",
                        "isPattern" : "false",
                        "id" : "car1"
                    },
                    "statusCode" : {
                        "code" : "200",
                        "reasonPhrase" : "OK"
                    }
                ]
            }
        }
    }

Flume events are not much more different than the above representation: there is a set of headers and a body. This is an advantage, since allows for a quick translation between formats. The equivalent <i>object representation</i> (not any real data format) for such a notified NGSI event could be the following Flume event:

    flume-event={
        headers={
	         content-type=application/json,
	         timestamp=1429535775,
	         transactionId=1429535775-308-0000000000,
	         fiware-service=vehicles,
	         fiware-servicepath=4wheels,
	         notified-entities=car1_car
	         notified-servicepaths=4wheels
	         grouped-entities=car1_car
	         grouped-servicepath=4wheels
        },
        body={
	         entityId=car1,
	         entityType=car,
	         attributes=[
	             {
	                  attrName=speed,
	                  attrType=float,
	                  attrValue=112.9
	             },
	             {
	                  attrName=oil_level,
	                  attrType=float,
	                  attrValue=74.6
	             }
	         ]
	     }
    }

The headers are a subset of the notified HTTP headers and others added by Cygnus interceptors:

* The <b>content-type</b> header is a replica of the HTTP header. It is needed for the different sinks to know how to parse the event body. In this case it is JSON.
* The notification reception time is included in the list of headers (as <b>timestamp</b>) for timestamping purposes in the different sinks. It is added by a native interceptor.
* The <b>transactionId</b> identifies a complete Cygnus transaction, starting at the source when the context data is notified, and finishing in the sink, where such data is finally persisted. It is generated by Cygnus unless notifed as a Http header; in that case it is reused instead.
* Note that Orion can include a `Fiware-Service` HTTP header specifying the tenant/organization associated to the notification. Since version 0.3, Cygnus is able to support this header, although the actual processing of such tenant/organization depends on the particular sink. If the notification doesn't include this header, then Cygnus will use the default service specified in the `default_service` configuration property of `OrionRESTHandler`. This NGSI header is directly added to the Flume event as `fiware-service`.
* Orion can notify another HTTP header, `Fiware-ServicePath` specifying a subservice within a tenant/organization. Since version 0.6, Cygnus is able to support this header, although the actual processing of such subservice depends on the particular sink. If the notification doesn't include this header, then Cygnus will use the default service path specified in the `default_service_path` configuration property of `OrionRESTHandler`. This NGSI header is used for building several Flume headers:
    * It is directly added as the `fiware-servicepath`.
    * It is replicated, per each notified context element, as the `notified-servicespaths` array. This is used when the grouping feature is not enabled in the processing sink.
    * It may also appear in the `grouped-servicepaths` array when, being enabled the grouping feature, there is no rule changing the default servicePath.
* By the default, the final persistece element (file, table, collection, etc), also named as the <i>destination</i>, is composed as the concatenation of the entity ID and type. This can be changed by the grouping feature, if enabled, deciding a new detination per each notified context element. Thus, the following headers may appear in a Flume event:
    * `notified-entities`, an array that can be used by those sinks not enabling the grouping feature.
    * `grouped-entities`, an array that can be used by those sinks enabling the grouping feature.

The body simply contains a byte representation of the HTTP payload that will be parsed by the sinks.
